# Inji Web  Design Decisions.

**Date:** 2024-04-17

## 1. Migration from JS To TS

### Context :
Why TS ?

1. TS gives us more control on data that is passed within the application
2. TypeScript code tends to be more readable compared to JavaScript, primarily due to its static typing feature.
3. Its more developer friendly

### Decision :
We will be moving to TS from JS


## 2. Folder Structure Maintenance for Tests

### Context :
Its better we move all the test files outside the src, so that source is more cleaner with the implementation and mocks are packed separately.

### Decision :
We will be maintaining the same folder structure as src folder under __ tests __ folder to package all the test files together.

## 3. State Management Library

### Context :
Since the application involves intermediary state changes, Its better we decide a state management library to cater our needs.

### Option 1 : Redux

1. Redux is a light weight js library, which is independent on the language / library we are using.
2. Its very easy to use and maintain
3. But Its maintains the global state /context

### Option 2 : XState

1. XState library is very helpful in maintaining /managing the complex states.
2. XState works using finite state machines.
3. plugins / editors are available to create and debug the flows.
4. But Its more dependent on the state machine, and more tied up with the controller / state machine

### Decision
Since INJI Web is a light weight project with small use case, We will go with Redux, and having xstate for INJIWEB will be hard to maintain.

## 4. UI Management Libraries ( TailwindCSS Over Material UI)

### Context :
Since the application involves UI pages and components, Its better we decide a UI management library to cater our needs.

### Option 1 : Material UI
1. Material UI is a JavaScript framework
2. Material UI Provides Pre Constructed JS Components and little customization to match our wireframe.
3. But Material UI has to load the entire Framework to render the Page, which increase the loadup time of the application.
4. Application will be scalable, but not Customisable.

### Option 2 : Tailwind CSS
1. TailwindCSS is a CSS library that applies the styles and downloads only the styles that is required for the application to load.
2. Tailwind css over more customization to cater our needed, its easy to manage and scale.
3. Tailwind css is easy to maintain and very light weight.

### Decision :
We will go with TailwindCSS over Material UI for the following reasons
1. Tailwind CSS is light weight
2. It improves the loadup time, as it Downloads only the styles that are needed.
3. Its provides more customisability, where system integrators can use it to cater their needs and design

## People
Owners: Vijayakumar, S
Reviewers / team:  Vijayakumar S , challa,  Shiva Kumar, Sasikumar Ganesan

## 4.1 Usage of UI management library in code

### Context :
Usage of tailwind classes inline in the components makes the code hard to read and maintain.

##### Why is this an issue?
1. Readability: Usage of TailwindCSS classes inline in the components makes JSX component long thus resulting in less readability.
2. Reusability & Maintainability: Since the classnames are maintained within the component, its not possible to use same styles in different component.
   - If we want to change the styles, we have to change it in multiple places which can lead to
      - increased effort for change
     - inconsistencies in the styles across the application.
3. Scalability: As the application grows, it becomes harder to manage the styles, leading to a messy codebase.

### Decision :
We will be using the TailwindCSS classes in a separate file, and use the class names in the code, so that it is easy to read and maintain.

##### Example, 

If we are writing styles for a Page - HomePage, the folder structure will be like this

```
src
├── pages
│   ├── HomePage
│   │   ├── HomePage.tsx // Home Page Component
│   │   └── HomePageStyles.ts // Home Page Styles
```

The code will be as follows:

Styles file managing the styles - HomePageStyles.ts
```tsx
export const HomePageStyles = {
  container: 'flex flex-col items-center justify-center min-h-screen bg-gray-100',
  title: 'text-4xl font-bold text-blue-600 mb-4',
};
```

Component file consuming the styles - HomePage.tsx
```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { HomePageStyles } from './HomePageStyles';

const HomePage: React.FC = () => {
  return (
    <div className={HomePageStyles.container}>
      <h1 className={HomePageStyles.title}>Welcome to the Home Page</h1>
      {/* Other components */}
    </div>
  );
};
export default HomePage;
```


### People involved :
Owners: KiruthikaJeyashankar
Reviewers / team: Gurpreet, Puvvada Bhargavi, KiruthikaJeyashankar, Kamlesh Singh